hello this is chef john from food wishes
calm with minestrone soup that's right
the classic italian soup roughly
translates to a big soup and that's
exactly what this is big flavors big
everything and by the way i've never
made this the same way twice and neither
should you
so this time i started off with a
handful of chopped pancetta they call it
Italian bacon but it's not smoked I'm
gonna saute that over medium heat a
little bit of olive oil until not quite
browned
almost when it just starts to look like
it's gonna Brown throw in your onions
alright I'm also going to dump in diced
celery and I'm going to cook those
vegetables for about four minutes until
the onions just start to turn
translucent and by the way I didn't drop
a black olive into my pot there's a
little chip in the bottom of my Dutch
oven don't be alarmed at that point I'm
going to add some minced garlic a good
amount I think I have like four cloves
worth all right we don't want to brown
that of course so stir that in and just
cook that for about a minute all right
after the garlic cooks for about a
minute we're going to dump in our
chicken broth and some water and one can
of plum tomatoes that I crushed with my
fingers you could also use of course
crushed tomatoes diced tomatoes anything
you want
alright give that a stir we're going to
bring that up to a simmer while we prep
our beans now you can just use all
canned beans for this but I had these
beautiful cranberry beans so gorgeous
and delicious so use these you've got to
take them out of the pods all right just
like shelling a pea so I did that and I
had about just over a cup of cranberry
beans also known as shelling beans for
obvious reasons I'm going to dump those
in I'm also going to add some chopped
cabbage very classic minestrone
ingredient I'm going to spice it up a
little bit with some red pepper flakes
some dry Italian herbs and a big pinch
of salt I'm going to give that a stir
and I'm also going to add a can of
drained and rinsed garbanzo beans I
really like our Bonzo beans in this soup
they had just a little bit of extra
substance and meatiness and I like
so I put them in but really any can
being product will work in this all
right when that comes up to a simmer I'm
going to turn my heat down to medium-low
and I'm just going to simmer that until
those cranberry beans are tender it's
going to take about 45 minutes and while
that's happening I'm going to prep
another critical ingredient the greens
I'm using Swiss chard in this case I
have a nice big bunch of Swiss chard
washed very thoroughly all right you can
use the stems and the leaves for the
stems simply slice across like that and
sort of a small dice for the leaves I
usually just roll them up roughly chop
them I go one way then I kind of go the
other there's no wrong way to slice
Swiss chard so relax okay so my greens
are prepped again make sure those are
thoroughly thoroughly rinsed we're going
to go back over to our soup pot and
you'll notice me adding water here
anytime the soup looks like it might be
getting a little too thick add some
water we need enough liquid to cook the
ingredients and at the end we need
enough liquid to cook the pasta okay as
soon as my shelling beans my cranberry
beans were tender I'm testing one right
there I'm going to dump in my greens
stir those in I'm going to simmer those
for about 15 minutes and we are getting
close to being done look how beautiful
that is already and I reven have the
pasta in speaking of which we're going
to use Dietl Eenie these little mini
tubes the official pasta shape of
minestrone and I know what you're
thinking that doesn't look like very
much there's no way that's enough oh
you're going to be amazed like
two-thirds of a cup here is enough for
this giant pot of soup all right before
you add the pasta very critical adjust
your seasoning
I added some black pepper I tasted for
salt and added more salt all right so
you want this soup to be fully seasoned
especially for salt when you dump in
that pasta all right you're going to
dump in the pasta you're going to turn
your heat up to medium-high you want
this to be simmering pretty good so the
pasta cooks and just doesn't sit in hot
soup and 15 minutes later as soon as the
pasta is tender you're ready to ladle
that into some hot bowls and serve this
magnificent and big soup I like to
finish mine off with some extra virgin
olive oil
just drizzle it right over the top you
know that one we're telling you never to
cook with to save it to finish things
all right that's the one we want you to
use here also a light dusting of
Reggiano parmesan does not hurt and is
highly recommended and then to brighten
it up a little bit add a little
freshness and color some Italian parsley
all right don't forget the big hunk of
bread and then you're going to dig in to
one of the best soups ever invented so
comforting delicious and relatively
healthy for you and like I said this is
made differently every time if you want
to put carrot in put carrot if you have
green beans put green beans in that
leftover bell pepper in the bottom of
your vegetable crisper dice that up and
throw it in there's no wrong way to make
minestrone so I hope you give it a try
head over to food wishes comm for all
the ingredient amounts as usual and as
always enjoy